# Computational Physics 2: computational quantum mechanics

## Introduction

This repository contain lecture slides, programs, exercises and
projects for a more advanced course in computational physics, with an
emphasis on quantum mechanical problems with many interacting
particles. The applications and the computational methods are relevant
for research problems in such diverse areas as nuclear, atomic,
molecular and solid-state physics, quantum chemistry and materials
science.

A theoretical understanding of the behavior of quantum-mechanical
many-body systems - that is, systems containing many interacting
particles - is a considerable challenge in that no exact solution can
be found; instead, reliable methods are needed for approximate but
accurate simulations of such systems on modern computers. New insights
and a better understanding of complicated quantum mechanical systems
can only be obtained via large-scale simulations. The capability to
study such systems is of high relevance for both fundamental research
and industrial and technological advances.

The aim of this course is to present applications of, through various
computational projects, some of the most widely used many-body methods
with pertinent algorithms and high-performance computing topics such
as advanced parallelization techniques and object
orientation. Furthermore, elements of Machine Learning and quantum
computing may be presented if of interest. In particular we will here
employ deep learning techniques based on neural networks and so-called
Boltzmann machines.  The methods and algorithms that will be studied
may vary from year to year depending on the interests of the
participants, but the main focus will be on systems from computational
material science, solid-state physics, atomic and molecular physics,
nuclear physics and quantum chemistry. The most relevant algorithms
and methods are microscopic mean-field theories (Hartree-Fock and
Kohn-Sham theories and density functional theories), large-scale
diagonalization methods, coupled-cluster theory, similarity
renormalization methods, and quantum Monte Carlo like Variational
Monte Carlo and Diffusion Monte Carlo approaches. Methods to study
phase transitions for both fermionic and bosonic systems can also be
studied.




## Learning outcomes

The course introduces a variety of central algorithms and methods for professional studies of quantum mechanical systems, with relevance for several problems in physics, materials science and quantum chemistry. The course is project based and through the various projects, normally two, the participants will be exposed to fundamental research problems in these fields, with the aim to reproduce state of the art scientific results. The students will learn to develop and structure large codes for studying these systems, get aquainted with supercomputing facilities and learn to handle large scientific projects. A good scientific and ethical conduct is emphasized throughout the course.

The course is also a continuation of FYS3150 â€“ Computational Physics, and it will give a further treatment of several of the numerical methods given there.


## Prerequisites

Basic knowledge in programming and mathematics, with an emphasis on
linear algebra. Knowledge of Python or/and C++ as programming
languages is strongly recommended and experience with Jupiter notebook
is recommended. Required courses are the equivalents to the University
of Oslo mathematics courses MAT1100, MAT1110, MAT1120 and at least one
of the corresponding computing and programming courses INF1000/INF1110
or MAT-INF1100/MAT-INF1100L/BIOS1100/KJM-INF1100. Most universities
offer nowadays a basic programming course (often compulsory) where
Python is the recurring programming language.

We recommend also that you have some background in quantum mechanics, typically at the level of FYS2140 and/or FYS3110.

## The course has two central parts

Computational aspects play a central role and you are
expected to work on numerical examples and projects which illustrate
the theory and varous algorithms discussed during the lectures. We recommend strongly to form small project groups of 2-3 participants, if possible. 

