# Advanced Topics in Computational Physics: Computational Quantum Mechanics

## Introduction

A theoretical understanding of the behavior of quantum-mechanical
many-body systems - that is, systems containing many interacting
particles - is a considerable challenge in that no exact solution can
be found; instead, reliable methods are needed for approximate but
accurate simulations of such systems on modern computers. New insights
and a better understanding of complicated quantum mechanical systems
can only be obtained via large-scale simulations. The capability to
study such systems is of high relevance for both fundamental research
and industrial and technological advances.

The aim of these lecture notes is to present applications of, through various
computational projects, some of the most widely used many-body methods
with pertinent algorithms and high-performance computing topics such
as advanced parallelization techniques and object
orientation. Furthermore, elements of Machine Learning and quantum
computing may be presented if of interest. In particular we will here
employ deep learning techniques based on neural networks and so-called
Boltzmann machines.  The methods and algorithms that will be studied
may vary from year to year depending on the interests of the
participants, but the main focus will be on systems from computational
material science, solid-state physics, atomic and molecular physics,
nuclear physics and quantum chemistry. The most relevant algorithms
and methods are microscopic mean-field theories (Hartree-Fock and
Kohn-Sham theories and density functional theories), large-scale
diagonalization methods, coupled-cluster theory, similarity
renormalization methods, and quantum Monte Carlo like Variational
Monte Carlo and Diffusion Monte Carlo approaches.
Quantum Computing, Machine Learning and Quantum Machine Learning applied to the solution of quantum mechanical problems are also relevant topics.



